South Africa is the latest country to
recall its diplomats from Israel as it
signals its concern over the situation
in Gaza a minister in the president's
office says the current situation cannot
be tolerated Haram mutasa has
more South Africa's position is
complicated it has diplomatic ties with
both Israel and Palestine but since this
particular War started we've seen the
South Africans seemingly siding with the
Palestinians the foreign affairs
minister say she had a telephone call
with the leader of Hamas and for the
first time in a long long time we saw
different political parties marching
together in support of the Palestinians
one reason for this solidarity with the
Palestinians is because South Africa
also has a history of apartate before
white minority rule ended in 1994 black
South Africans were under a system of
aparted where if you black you were
forced to live in segregated areas you
had limited access to healthcare
education Etc and that's one reason why
some people say South Africa and its
citizens some of them are supporting the
Palestinians Africa as a whole is a big
continent you get some countries who are
supporting a particular side some
countries who are choosing to stay
neutral and some who are saying nothing
at all waiting to see how things go
Israel um and Palestine have a strong
long complicated history on the African
continent for example Israel helped some
countries in Africa end colonial rule
right now they're helping countries with
technology infrastructure agriculture
Etc whereas Palestine helped countries
on the continent also in colonial rule
as well so long complicated ties with
both is and Palestine and that's why you
seeing many opinions on the continent
right now very mixed haruta
Al